Hello.
Welcome to the Developing
with Core Image session.
Yeah, that's me.
So here's the agenda
for this presentation.
I'm going to talk a bit about
what happened with Core Image in
essentially the last year
since I was up here last time.
And for those people who actually
missed last year's presentation,
I'll give a brief overview
what Core Image is all about.
And then we're going to
switch immediately to what's
actually new in Leopard.
We're talking about
new APIs and features,
the improvements we did to enable
debugging and performance tuning
of Core Image filter chains,
how to build user interfaces for filters,
and how to make your own Image Unit.
So, yeah, what happened so far?
So Core Image was introduced
two years ago at WWDC and then
shipped last year in April.
And by now,
the entire hardware product line
that Apple sells is able to support
Core Image in GPU accelerated mode.
And many clients have
started to use the API.
So here's a list of clients
that are internal to Apple.
So there's really big
applications like Aperture.
There's things like Dashboard,
where Core Image is
doing the ripple effect,
and these kind of things.
New in Leopard-- excuse me.
Resolution Independence uses Core Image,
Time Machine uses Core Image,
and there's plenty of new
things in iChat and so on.
But kind of the real stars of
the adoption of Core Image is
our third party applications.
So here's a selection I couldn't really
test all applications I could find.
And these span the gamut from, well,
doing something on video or on images,
kind of the bread and butter thing
that you would do with Core Image,
to games that use flame effects that
happen to be Core Image filters.
And yeah, everybody likes OmniDazzle.
So here's an example of a
custom third-party image unit.
The chocoflop image unit
contains about five filters,
and one of them is this
leaf distortion effect.
So an interesting anecdote here,
how did I get that image
unit to work in Keynote?
So what I did,
I built a Quartz Composer composition
which uses the third-party image unit.
And that does all the timing.
And then exported that
as a QuickTime movie.
And the QuickTime movie exported from
Quartz Composer is just the wrapper.
So it's still the Quartz
Composer composition that
gets rendered in real time.
It's just packaged in such a
way that anything that can play
QuickTime can play that back.
And that's how this got into Keynote.
So Keynote is actually playing
a third-party image unit,
even though their programmers
probably never thought about that.
And it's a great way
for you if you have a,
you know,
would like to have custom motion
backgrounds in Keynote or so,
you know, you can write an
Image Unit and put it in there.
And it's a great way
for you if you have a,
you know,
would like to have custom motion
backgrounds in Keynote or so,
you know, you can write an
Image Unit and put it in there.
or specular highlights which
are done with the filter.
And there's another filter which
does the shadow underneath the card,
turns that hard shadow
into a soft shadow.
And to me,
this is a really compelling example
of what you can do if you combine
vector art with filter effects
because this is still scalable.
You can print that at 600 DPI and get
a really beautiful rendition of this.
So, kind of a summary for people who
have missed last year's presentation.
Core Image is an image
processing library.
It enables GPU-accelerated
image processing,
and it has a full floating point,
full color-managed pipeline.
And we'll go over a slide a bit
later about what that means.
There's a base set of over 100 filters,
and then there's a plug-in architecture,
which we call Image Units,
to extend that base set.
So this is where third-party developers
come in and can build their own.
Filter kernels are expressed in a
subset of the OpenGL shading language.
And such that pieces that don't
really make sense in terms of image,
like in image processing, like fog,
these kind of things that OpenGL does.
So these pieces we left out.
Other than that, it's pretty complete.
And the nice thing about that is
this is an architecture-independent
way of describing image processing.
So for those people who wrote
Image Units and then moved to Intel,
they essentially didn't have to
do any work because it was just
essentially a C-string with instruction
about the filter is supposed to do,
and in the runtime just
compiles it on the new platform.
And hopefully, the next time something
wild like that happens,
we can pull off the same trick.
There is also a just-in-time compiler
under the hood that can take these
kernels and compile them to the CPU if
the GPU is not available or for some
reason the GPU is busy and you kind
of want to offload stuff onto the CPU.
And that just-in-time compiler can
compile to the Velocity Engine on the
PowerPC chip and to SSC3 on Intel chips,
and it works in 64-bit.
So kind of the philosophy behind
the API is that Core Image follows
the lazy evaluation model to its,
well, as far as it is reasonable.
What that means is,
so you have your object,
which is a CI image,
and you pass that to a filter.
Let's say you do something like undo
a barrel distortion from your camera.
So you get a new image out,
which has that distortion removed.
Then you apply another filter, which is,
say, a color correction filter,
because the sunset isn't warm
enough or whatever you like.
And you get a third image out.
And then you pass that-- I don't know,
a sharpened filter to make things
crisp and you get your fourth image.
All of these operations actually
didn't work on the bits.
What really happened in the background
is the original data was referenced,
and there's a little sticky note that the
system attaches to it that says to do,
barrel distortion undo, what was it,
color correct, and sharpen.
The time when the image is actually
evaluated is when you go and draw it.
So that has a bunch of
interesting benefits.
So the first benefit is you get
higher performance in general
because the runtime can concatenate
all these filter operations into
a single path over the image.
And generally, you're not going back
and forth to memory,
which helps performance.
This particularly helps
performance in the CPU case.
GPUs have usually a lot of
more memory bandwidth and have
not-- the problem still exists,
but it's not as severe.
Similarly, when you actually draw your
sub-rectangle of that image in the end,
say it's actually in a scroll view
and only a part of it is visible,
then only that part
needs to be evaluated.
So there's a huge performance gain there.
There's also a precision gain
because everything that happens
in a filter kernel is expressed
as full floating point operations.
So if you don't go back to a
buffer which then say clamps
stuff down to 16 bit ins or so,
then you get a performance
precision gain.
So I was mentioning full
color managed pipeline before,
and I'm trying to
explain what that means.
So essentially,
images come in and they have
color spaces attached to it.
So one is Adobe RGB, one is sRGB,
and so on.
And before they enter the system
and any processing happens,
they get-- the data gets converted,
which is really just another filter
that gets inserted by the runtime.
The data gets converted
to a working color space.
And all the processing happens
in that working color space.
And at the end,
before you draw another color conversion,
which in practice is just another
filter that gets attached at the end,
that color gets matched
into the target device,
say, related to your display color space.
So the first color matching
going from images into the
working space is necessary,
because you want to be able to
composite several images from
several color spaces together.
So you kind of have to unify that.
And the last color matching is necessary,
because you want all your filter
operations to be device independent.
A blur shouldn't look different on a
device on display A versus a printer.
So that's why all operations happen
in that canonical working space.
The default working
space is generic RGB HDR,
and in most cases,
you will not need to change that.
And generic RGB HDR has a
bunch of properties which are
important for image processing.
So the first one is light linear,
and that essentially means the
values that you have in your color
components have a linear relationship
to the amount of photons that come
out of your display at the end.
Or you can look at it
the other way around.
The amount of photons that
hit the sensor in your camera,
the number that you get out
is proportional to that.
And that allows you to do things
like do exposure adjusts in software
and actually get the same result as
the exposure adjusts on your camera.
These kind of things.
The second point is that infinite gamut.
So for the filter writer,
infinite gamut just means values for
RGB can be outside the 0-1 range.
So you can have values
that are bigger than 1,
so you have super bright pixels
like specular highlights in images,
you know, if there's sunset in there,
these kind of things.
Values can also be negative,
and that's typically for neon colors,
colors that are out of the gamut
of usually the color triangle,
if you have seen those diagrams.
Okay, so after that brief overview,
I would like to invite Frank Doepke up
to tell us all that's new in Leopard.
Frank Doepke: Thank you, Ralph.
Also, welcome from my side to WWDC.
And my name is Frank Doepke,
and I'll be talking about
all the new features that we
have for you in Core Image.
So let's start a little bit
looking at our new APIs.
So we've done refinements all over
the place based on your feedback,
so we started actually, for instance,
having more convenience
functions for the common task.
You will find those in our headers.
Then we have lots of now common
keys basically in the filters where
we introduced constants for it.
So this allows you
actually that in Xcode,
you can use now a constant for
like input image or output image,
so you can use code completion.
So less typos also in that code.
And then we have, for instance,
now documentation for the filters.
This means actually that the filter
can give you a small description and
even like an HTML page that shows
you all the features of that filter.
And for those right image units,
you can provide those also.
So even your documentation can be
seen and presented to the user.
I'll talk a little bit more
about this in some samples later.
And then clip in your bindings.
I'm not inviting you to
go skiing this moment,
but we have something new that
is that you can actually now
observe your output image.
So this is important, actually,
because this allows you to automatically
catch all the updates in a filter chain.
When you, in the past,
tried to chain multiple filters and
you change something-- let's say
you pipe an image into filter A,
then from there you take that
result and put it into filter B,
and that's what you
want to draw on screen.
Now you change a parameter on filter A.
That output image that you originally
put into filter B has not changed
because your images are immutable.
So what you had to do in
your code was actually,
well, something changed in filter A,
now I have to propagate this
all the way through the chain.
Now that you can actually bind
the output image from filter
A to the input image of filter B,
it will just happen automatically.
And what you do in the
end is like on filter B.
You just register
yourself as an observer.
You register yourself as an
observer to the output image there,
and that just triggers your drawing code.
So this all happens now
for you automatically.
Somebody changes the filter on A,
and you get the change on your result,
and your drawing code gets
even called automatically.
So this really reduces the workload
for you in terms of writing code
to handle all your filter change.
And when you look at some of the
sample apps that are available for now,
you will see that it's
really much less code.
And then let me talk about QuartzGL.
QuartzGL is new in Leopard.
And with that part,
what we actually allow you to do is that
you can use now a regular NSView and
create your CI context of it and still
get the full hardware acceleration.
So going back to Tiger,
what happened there was basically when
you wanted to get the full performance,
you wanted to create an NSOpenGL view.
So you needed to write a
little bit of OpenGL code,
or you could use our sample,
the sample CI view or the sample
CI scrollable view to get the full
performance running on the GPU.
And that is, of course,
a little bit inconvenient.
So in Leopard,
you can actually use an NSView.
Now, this is not 100% true in the
seed that you have already now,
but it will be true in the end
when Leopard finally ships.
So the full performance is not there.
It is definitely faster already,
but it's not as fast as it
will be at the very end.
So this will be something to make
life a little bit easier for you.
Next step, as Ralph already mentioned,
one of the big features of
Core Image is that you don't
just want to run one filter,
you actually want to
concatenate multiple filters.
And therefore you create a
little more complex effects.
And for that we have something new for
you and that is the CI Filter Generator.
So this allows you to
take multiple filters,
put them together and
create a complex effect.
And you can reuse those because they
are now wrapped into one filter,
kind of like a macro actually,
that's how you can see those.
And you can install them
actually on disk and you can
reuse them in your applications.
And we do have also an editor for it that
I will be showing to you in a minute.
It's not on your disk,
so don't search for it right now.
But it will actually show you
how to visually-- you can create
your graph with little magnets,
and you see really what the
results of your filters are.
And this is a great tool that we
envision that later on artists can use
to create effects for your applications.
And you just have to load those.
You don't even have to write any code
to really take advantage of this.
And with that,
I would like to give you a demo of
what the filter generator can do.
Okay, so this is our filter generator.
What I can simply do now,
I start with an image.
That didn't work.
Let's try it once more.
OK, there we go.
So I start with an image.
And now I can use a filter here.
Let's say I start with something--
and it's not very visually pleasing,
but at least hopefully
seen also in the last row.
So I start with a pointillized filter.
And I want to compare it actually
with something like pixelate.
Let's drag this in.
So I can pipe now my image like this.
And I see already in the right part, OK,
this is how point-alized looks like.
Now I use pixelate.
And now I use a transition
actually at the very end.
Let me say I use the copy machine.
"Let's make this in.
And hook this up.
So this is a very, very simple graph.
Now what I want to do is actually,
I want to compare those effects.
So I can actually say, well,
I'm interested in seeing the
result of the input radius.
I'm going to actually export that
key to what the input scale can do.
And then in the copy machine,
let me just adjust it a little bit
so it looks a little bit better.
And I know that image actually
is a little bit bigger.
I want to see the input time.
So now I can save this out.
If I can type.
Okay.
And now I wrote a little
sample application that uses
these filter generators.
So now I can open that one.
This was the one that I just created.
And now I can actually go in here
and actually compare the stuff.
So you see,
this is just an image that I pipe
in and just can simply also say,
OK, well, this is what happens if
I use the pixelate part,
and this is what happens when
I use my pointillized filter.
So that is a very,
very simple example of that.
So let me just give you one
additional part to this,
actually how much code was
involved in doing this.
And that's it.
It's the open panel takes
up most of the space here.
All I need to load is
the filter and use it.
Okay, now this was a very,
very simple filter.
Let me try to create a little bit
more compelling example for you here.
So I actually start with some
text that I created as an image.
And now we'll start by inverting it.
And then I mask that,
create a height field from it.
So you see this is getting
a little more complex now.
And then I actually want to
use some shaded material.
And I pipe this in here.
So you can already see here on
the right-hand side that we get
some nice effect with that text.
But it's not quite right yet.
What I want to achieve is actually
that this text looks like Chrome.
So let me draw on an image for this.
And now I have a nice chrome effect
where I can actually even change... Huh?
A little glitch here
on the graphics card.
Okay, well, please ignore that.
But you want to say,
Chrome is normally not orange,
so let me actually change that as well,
so I can actually break this
connection and change this.
Make this a monochrome.
And now this looks already
much more like Chrome,
and I can actually pick
whatever color I want here.
Or I can go to my color wheel,
and you see how nice that changes
actually the color of the text.
So this is like a Chrome effect.
And let me even change this by
taking this color invert out.
And now, actually,
I have something that looks
almost like an oil kind of text.
So this is our filter generator editor.
And instead,
I would like to go back to the slides.
Now think of what somebody who has
really graphic skills can do with that.
Okay, so you saw it's all
about connecting things.
So let's have a look at the API,
how we connect stuff.
So you want to connect a
filter to another filter.
So what you have is you
connect it as a source object,
and you say, "Okay,
which key of that filter I want
to connect to the target object,
and which key that will be there?"
One special thing that you can do
with the filter generator is that
you can actually use an NSString,
which is the path of an image,
and you can put that in
there as a source object.
So you can say,
like an environment map where
you simply take the path of that
image and you set it up as my
source object that I pipe into,
like as I used a ball, for instance,
here, and set this as my shaded material.
That's my environment map.
We'll not save all that
image in the graph.
We just save that reference for you
and then resolve that on the fly.
So that makes it actually really
convenient for these things.
And then, of course,
when I want to disconnect,
as I've done earlier in the demo,
I simply have, of course,
a disconnect call for this as well.
You saw that I was able to
take some parameters of that
filter and export those.
What does it actually mean?
When you have a filter,
you want to give your client the
ability to change some parameters in it.
So, in that form, we just export a key.
This allows the client to change,
as I showed you, the radius or the
Like the time on the transition.
Now, there's one interesting part,
as you saw,
that I used as one input image.
And I used it actually in
two filters that I then,
again, laid on pipe together.
So what I did actually for this input
image-- and the generator actually
does this for you automatically in
that case-- is that I used one input
key and exported it on two objects.
So whenever you later on
set that one input image,
it automatically gets
set on both filters.
So there's this very need
for more complex graphs.
So that's the way how you can export
the same key on multiple filters.
One important thing that
you don't want to forget is
actually that at the very end,
you need to export on your filter an
output image key because otherwise,
there's nothing that you
can get out of your filter.
Of course, you can remove a key if needed
if you did anything wrong.
So that's simply the remove export key.
And you can set default attributes.
So normally, each of these keys takes the
attributes from the filter.
But if you say, for instance, well,
I have this Gaussian blur,
but the maximum value in my
specific application would be way
too big for what I want to do.
So you can actually override the
default attributes by saying,
well,
my maximum value can only be half of it.
So now we want to-- basically,
after we hook everything up,
we want to create a filter.
And for that part,
we have an API for that.
Simply create a CI filter.
And this gives you an instance
of a CI filter that you can treat
like every other filter that
you already have in Core Image.
Now, if you want to use this filter in
multiple places of your application,
or you want to use it
over and over again,
just carrying around this one
instance is not very convenient.
For that, you would actually register
your filter with a name.
And that allows you then to use, again,
the filter with name API on
Core Image to create instances of
that filter over and over again.
One note that you really need
to keep in mind is before you
want to create the filters,
that you have to set all the
inputs of the filters that
went into this generator.
So let's say on this shaded material one,
which takes an environment map,
if I don't export that key or don't
set it to an image beforehand,
it will be nil the moment when
this filter tries to get generated.
And when you now ask that
filter for an output image,
it will actually throw an exception,
because we cannot deal with
a nil image as a source.
So make sure that you
set all the parameters.
That way,
your filter later on will work correctly.
And of course, you want to save those
filter generators out.
And there's a simple API that writes
it out into a P-list document.
So you simply write it to a URL.
And you can use these descriptions in
your applications or even distribute
it to your friends if you want to.
So the part that we really envision
there is that if you have an art
department or a graphic artist,
he can create these effects for you.
And then you can use them
in your application again.
And then of course
there's the counterpart,
how to read it back in,
and that is that you simply create
a filter generator from that URL.
And that was pretty much that only
little code snippet that I showed
in my sample app that uses it.
That's all what I had to do,
and then ask for a filter.
So that was the filter generator.
Next part,
let's talk about something uncooked.
We now support actually
raw images in Core Image.
So what that means is when you
look at digital cameras today,
it's getting more important that you
can actually support the raw format.
And raw is like-- yeah,
the analogy of being
uncooked is not so far off.
Because this is really
what comes from the sensor.
So when you look at all these little
colorful buttons and labels that
you have on the box of like this
image processing that the camera
can do and this fancy algorithm,
this has not been applied.
The advantage actually of using
that raw data is that you can now,
based on this real raw information,
really tweak the image correctly.
And there's ongoing research of how you
can actually read the sensor information
and make better images out of it.
So this is the way now that with the
CI raw filter that we allow you to
use raw images directly in Core Image.
You can adjust the image right there.
So we give you some parameters there.
And as I said,
since we do continuously improve on this,
so I can guarantee you there will be
future versions of Core Image that
have better improvements on raw import,
so there will be different versions.
That is important for
you to keep in mind.
If you want to basically create an
application that takes advantage of this.
Now for your clients,
you want to make sure, well,
even like three years down the line,
he wants to get the same image out of it.
You want to again select the same
version of the raw implementation.
Or if you want to have the best results,
go with the latest.
And with that,
let's have a look at the raw API.
So the API to create a filter
is either from a file-- so we go
by a URL-- or if you go by data,
if you have it already in memory.
And then there are some keys that allow
you actually then to manipulate this.
So you see this is a filter,
this is not an image.
That is important as being a filter,
we can manipulate the stuff and
then pipe it also further down into
the pipeline of Core Image when
you do additional processing.
So the keys that allow you, for instance,
the exposure setting and the
net neutral chromaticity,
that was a hard word.
You can send the temperature
tint and also the location.
Those kind of parameters go
a little bit hand in hand.
Those are the most important ones for
actually adjusting an image for the
white balance and the correct exposure.
And with that,
I would like to give you a demo of this.
So I'm opening up a raw image.
And this is a pretty big image.
That's why it took a
little moment to load.
And what you can see,
it's a little bit overexposed.
If you look in the sky,
and you can barely make out
the tail fin of that plane.
So I can actually adjust the
exposure value a little bit down.
And you see, wow,
that looks already much, much better.
So that gives me an easy
way of already seeing,
OK, this was an image that
was not quite right.
And I can tweak it into the correct way.
And I didn't lose any information
really that much here.
And then, of course,
I can either use the temperature
slider to make this a little bit
more cooler or warmer looking,
depending on what I want.
Or in this case, actually,
I can just pick a white
point in this image.
And yeah, so this is NASA.
This is going
English versus metric white.
So that is the easy way of how
I can already adjust that image.
Now, as I said,
we can use CI filters with it.
So let me take a filter here,
and I want to do a gamma adjust.
So now what I can do is go a
little bit stronger with this guy.
Now you can actually start
to see actually that he's
pointing inside that engine.
That was almost not visible before.
So that is just putting it into
a regular CI filter pipeline,
so regular Core Image processing.
The sample was supposed to be made
on the disk that you have available.
Unfortunately, it did not quite make it.
But if you come later on to our lab,
we can give you the sample code so you
can actually work with this application.
And with that,
I would like to go back to the slides.
So one of the most requested features
from Core Image in the past was,
"OK, I have this filter.
I need to show the
parameters to our users.
How do I create some UI?" So we had,
of course, the Funhaus demo application,
which we showed you.
Just write this amount of code,
and you have basically
a UI for your filters.
Well, now we have an API for you
that is slightly smaller.
So it allows you to automatically
create a UI for filters,
and you can also provide for those
right filters your custom UI.
So that way, as an Image Unit,
you can have your own branding on it.
And what you get is actually
a view with all the controls
needed to set up this filter and
change all the parameters of it.
In addition, we threw something in
that's a filter browser.
And if you paid attention to what I've
used before already in the samples,
that's the filter browser.
You can have it as a view.
You can have it as a sheet or as a panel,
depending on what you like.
So it's your choice.
It allows you to browse
through the filters.
And you see a preview of the filter.
And you see also a description of it.
And very much like the phone panel,
it allows you to collect the favorites,
so you can actually keep your
favorite filters in one location.
And very much like the phone panel,
it allows you to collect the favorites,
so you can actually keep your
favorite filters in one location.
So let's look at this API.
As I said, it's really big.
Well, to get a view that
provides UI for a filter,
all I have to call is actually
view with UI configuration.
UI configuration is actually a
dictionary which allows you to take
the size of the controls that you want.
So you can get mini, small,
or regular-sized controls.
And also a set of controls where
we are actually still defining
a parameter set of very basic or
the more advanced feature set.
And you can also on your own say, OK,
I want to exclude certain keys.
So this sounds a little bit abstract.
Why would I do that?
If your application, like most of them,
is a document application,
so you know your document is your image,
that will be your input image that
you want to pipe into that filter.
So you most likely don't want to
display this input image in your
UI for that filter because that's
already right there in your document.
So you can simply exclude it,
and that key,
actually the UI for that key
will not show up in the view.
And for filters, so this is now for the
people who write image units,
who want to provide their own UI,
you simply have to implement
the Provider method,
and you can bring up your own view.
So that was all what you needed
to create this UI for filter.
On the filter browser side,
so we have a shared instance,
so you get this shared
instance and run it.
In this case,
I used to run model with options.
But they, of course,
are the reader calls if you want
to run it as a sheet or in a panel.
So again, there are some options which
allow you to configure if the
preview is originally visible.
Or you can set your own images
for the preview so that it matches
what you see in your document.
So that is all there in
the options dictionary.
And if you want to put this
view right into your window,
you can do that as well because you
simply have to ask for the filter browser
view and you stick this into your window.
And if you want to put this
view right into your window,
you can do that as well because you
simply have to ask for the filter browser
view and you stick this into your window.
So this little demo application you
actually do find on your Leopard Disk.
It's in the developer examples
under Quartz Core Image.
And it's a very simple application just
to show you a little bit the capabilities
and also to test some parts out.
So I can now open my filter browser here.
And you can see I can
search for a filter,
as I've done before.
I can go for like sepia.
There's my sepia tone filter.
And it tells me what sepia does,
shows me a little preview of it.
Of course,
I can turn this preview on and off.
And then I just double click on it,
and it gets added to my image.
I can take a second filter.
So let's say I want to actually
just distort this a little bit.
Let me cancel my search.
And yeah,
let me see like the glass distortion.
No, that does not quite look like-- yeah,
circle splash.
OK, let me use the circle
splash in this case.
And I add this as well.
So now I have like some fancy
effect that I go on top of my image.
And I hope that it's
visible for everybody.
And I can still change
also my sepia tone.
When you look at that sample code,
this also takes advantage of
a lot of the bindings part.
So, it's actually very little code
that I had to do to really chain
up these filters in this moment.
And then, of course,
I can remove a filter and go
back to something like this.
And when you play around with it,
it allows you to test out the
different sizes of the controls
and which set of controls you want.
So that is the
Image Unit Demo application.
And as I said,
that is already available for you.
I would like to go back to the slides.
So, writing Image Unit is not
necessarily the easiest task,
I have to admit.
So, a lot of requests was like,
"Give us a little bit better
documentation," and we do have now.
It's the Image Unit tutorial,
and you can,
with this Image Unit tutorial,
much better write filters.
So, it has really a step-by-step
guide for writing filters,
how to write the kernels,
and how to package them up.
There's lots of sample code in it.
It's 78 pages.
And actually, I have a copy here.
This is how it looks like.
And you really see-- well,
if you can see, even in the last row,
there's lots of samples
and how to do this stuff.
So check it out.
We have a bunch of copies also in the lab
that you can get and find it on your DVD.
So it's for you available as a PDF.
So who wants this copy?
Here, first row.
There we go.
So let's have a look at
one of these examples.
I picked the Lens Image Unit to actually
demonstrate one thing that you might run
into when you write your own Image Units.
And that is the problem with the ROI.
So what is the ROI?
It's the region of interest.
When you write a filter,
most likely you don't just
sample like one pixel,
you want to sample surrounding it.
And when an image actually
gets uploaded to Core Image,
most often it gets tiled.
So this is for efficiency.
It gets sliced and diced
into the smaller sections.
Now when you try to access a pixel
on like the edge of this tile,
and you can go further out,
that tile is at the end.
So I can't access the pixel anymore,
so I get some artifacts on screen.
And that can be that
there's something missing,
or you see like little
vertical or horizontal lines,
and you think,
what do these guys in Cupertino do?
There are bugs in it.
It's actually not a bug.
You need to tell Core Image how big
that image range is that you actually
need in your kernel to really access it.
So if you say, well,
my algorithm will normally sample like x
amount of pixels around a center point,
the tile Core Image, OK,
this rectangle is x amount
of pixels bigger than what
I originally that image was,
so that I can really tile
everything correctly.
And with that,
I would like to give you a little
demo of how this looks like.
So as I said,
I'm using the Lens Image Unit,
which is described in
that Image Unit tutorial.
So what I've done here is just to--
I don't want to go over the whole code,
but in the part here
where we set up the ROI,
the region of interest calculation,
I simply was so bad that I commented out.
So when I build this filter now,
So as I said,
I'm using the Lens Image Unit,
which is described in
that Image Unit tutorial.
So what I've done here is just to--
I don't want to go over the whole code,
but in the part here
where we set up the ROI,
the region of interest calculation,
I simply was so bad that I commented out.
So when I build this filter now,
And there's my lens.
Now I can go in and move
around and look-- oops,
where's my ring?
It just disappeared.
And that is simply because
the ROI function is missing,
so I can't sample those pixels anymore.
So let me fix that for you
by simply going back here.
Save this.
Let's build it again.
And I actually had it built
directly into the Image Unit folder,
so that just makes the demo
a little bit easier for me.
Here's the same image.
Save this.
Let's build it again.
And I actually had it built
directly into the Image Unit folder,
so that just makes the demo
a little bit easier for me.
Here's the same image.
Talking about image units,
there can also be a lot of things
going wrong by packaging them.
So for that we have an
Image Unit Analyzer.
That tool was already available
for those who participated in the
Image Unit logo program earlier,
but we now have it available
in Neppert for you.
In that part, we actually check and make
sure that everything is in
order with this Image Unit.
So we test, first of all,
if the Image Unit is complete
and if the bundle is correct.
So there are some parameters
that you have to set up,
some information that you need to
provide to create an Image Unit,
and we check for this.
Then we verify if the
filter is set up correctly.
So there are certain things
that we expect from the filter,
so we will check with this tool.
Then we test drive the filter.
So we're not looking at the image,
but we at least apply that
filter to an image and see,
will it barf?
Now, one thing that's very important
for LabRD is we will check,
actually, if this Image Unit is built
for all four architectures.
So we check if it's
running on PPC and Intel,
32 and 64-bit.
So set up your project
correctly in Xcode,
and you'll get all four architectures.
So you find it in the developer tools.
This is a command line tool.
And this is actually how
the result looks like.
So this is a little filter that I wrote,
which, oh, what a surprise,
it passed the test.
And you will see basically some similar
results if your filter is correct.
So again, the call: build Image Units,
create applications that
also host Image Units.
It's just one line of
code that you have to do.
You can take advantage of how
Core Image can be extended.
And there's the Image Unit logo program.
So this allows you,
when your test actually was successful
and it's the Image Unit analyzer
and you follow a license agreement,
that you can put that logo on
your box and everybody can see,
"Ooh, this is creamy and juicy."
Next point, we have a widget for you.
This is the CI Filter Browser
Dashboard widget.
And this was available as a download
for Tiger a little bit earlier,
but we have improved it now for Leopard.
So it is now already with your
Leopard developer tools installed.
So if you go into
Dashboard on your machines,
you will see it already.
So it is now already with your
Leopard developer tools installed.
So if you go into
Dashboard on your machines,
you will see it already.
And you get to know the filter.
This means actually that you can have
a look at what parameters are there
and actually what is the parameter set
that I can use with this specific key,
so like the maximum, minimum values.
And you can test drive the filter,
so we allow you even to test live
with your own images how this filter
will actually affect your image.
And you get to know the filter.
This means actually that you can have
a look at what parameters are there
and actually what is the parameter set
that I can use with this specific key,
so like the maximum, minimum values.
And you can test drive the filter,
so we allow you even to test live
with your own images how this filter
will actually affect your image.
Okay, so I'll open it up in Dashboard and
I can see my preview of the filter.
Now I can go here and have
a look at different filters.
As I said, I can search.
I always like to search for CPL.
And there it is.
And I can see that filter.
And as I said, now we have documentation.
When I click here,
this actually brings me
to the full documentation.
And there's my filter reference.
It did not work quite here.
We have a network problem.
OK.
But technically, it would work.
And what I can also do is I said, like,
besides just looking at these all,
I can see, okay,
it has an intensity parameter.
These are the values that I can use.
It's a scalar.
I can use my own images.
So, this is a slight trick to do that.
So, I grab, actually, an image,
start dragging.
Now, I invoke dashboard,
and I can drag it right in here,
and there's my own image
to test drive this filter.
And as I said, we can also copy the code.
So let me take a little bit
more complex filter here,
like, for instance, the CMYK halftone.
And now all I have to do,
when I select the filter,
I hit Command-C for copy.
And then I go into Xcode.
Let me just create an empty file.
And I can paste it.
This is a very long one.
But you see, we already create for
you filter with name,
correct filter name.
And all the keys are here,
so you can set them
directly if you want to.
And we give you also the, OK,
what is the type of it?
So that makes coding much, much easier.
So see this as kind of like
an API browser for you.
OK, so that was the widget.
I'd like to go back to the slides,
please.
Well, I've already mentioned debugging.
So debugging means, actually,
that we want to have a look into the
black box of what CoreImage is doing.
And for that,
we reintroduce an old friend
that has learned some new tricks,
and that is Quartz Debug.
Quartz Debug now can look into CoreImage.
And that means it knows which filters
get executed on the CI context and
it knows how long a filter took.
So this is important for you to
really analyze at least what is
happening with my CoreImage rendering.
And to make some mileage on the stage,
I would like to give you a demo.
Can we-- yeah, thank you.
So I'm going back to my own
little sample code here.
[Transcript missing]
I'm adding a CPU filter.
Oh, and you see now, actually,
there are two renderings happening here.
So why is that?
I only have one image.
Well, of course, in that first part here,
when I look at it,
this is actually what happened.
In my real application versus what
actually happened in my little
filter browser when I brought
up that filter browser panel,
because that preview needs
to be rendered as well,
and that is Core Image as well.
So this shows me when I look
here in the bottom part,
actually, OK, this is the CPR tone
filter that rendered.
I can see the input intensity.
I can see the domain of
definition that was used.
It's all there.
So I at least understand
which filters have been used.
Now, have a look at the performance part.
And I can actually open this part here.
I need to start sampling.
And now when I go in here
and actually use the slider,
you can actually see how the numbers
on the right side actually increase.
So this tells me actually, OK,
something is rendering
and using some time.
This is actually the time
spent in that filter.
And it will tell me how long it took,
actually how many pixels were processed,
and how many pixels even
per second we actually used.
So this is simply how you can look with
Quartz Debug into what is happening
with Core Image in your application.
Instead,
I would like to go back to the slides,
please.
So this is the rendering log.
And you can see in that application,
I rendered quite a bit already.
And on that bottom part,
you see really what actually
filters were executed.
So I clicked on one of them,
and I want to see what did happen
during this render instance.
This is actually using the
sample code for the transition.
So you can see there was a swipe
transition that I used right here.
And I can see all the
images that went into it.
In the performance log,
the important part for me is
to see how long does it take.
Now we see over 4,000 milliseconds.
That's a long time.
Well, this is the accumulated time
as long as I was sampling.
And as I said,
I used the transition selector sample,
which constantly renders.
So over the time, that was like spending
4,000 milliseconds in this.
It processed over 260,000 pixels,
and that gives me a count
of 61 megapixels per second.
So that is actually the
information that I can see,
okay,
how long does this specific filter took.
So what does this all tell me?
When you look at the filters,
you first of all notice, OK,
which one gets really
executed and in which order.
So when you have more
complex applications,
you build your chain
from different points.
You might not really know
what's really in there.
And there can be a crop before
you actually do the next effect.
And you wonder, OK,
why is that really not
showing the effects to the
outside as I wanted to see?
Second of all,
when you look at how much time is spent,
not every filter has the same impact.
So they have definitely different
costs on the graphics card,
or even if they run in CPU.
So that depends on the
complexity of the filter.
And of course,
the image size has a great impact
on your performance as well.
Larger image, of course, needs more time.
So if you have a filter graph
and we have some environment map,
and this might be you just accidentally
picked a very big image for it,
although it's not really needed,
your performance will go down.
And with Quartz Debug,
you can actually see these
performance lags and fix it.
So, with that,
I would like to get Ralph back on
the stage for the closing ceremony.
Thank you.
So, with that,
I would like to get Ralph back on
the stage for the closing ceremony.
Thank you.
The DTS guys told me to
fire you all up and go off,
so you go off and do
something with this stuff.
So this is the slide.
[Transcript missing]
Take advantage of the eyesight.
So this, I think,
is actually an important
one for the coming years.
Essentially, the EyeSight is built in,
in half of our product line today,
and it's great.
You can use it as an input device.
For example, there is this application,
Delicious Library,
which uses the EyeSight to
scan barcodes of your CDs,
DVDs, books, and so on.
And this is a great use of the EyeSight.
Similarly, you saw in EyeChat, excuse me,
in EyeChat, the background removal,
the new feature that got added,
and that is actually a core image filter
that does the image diffing and then
composites a new filter in the back.
So one example that we experimented
with a while ago was color tracking.
So I could essentially
wear an orange shirt,
point the eyesight at me,
and have a Core Image filter,
which first marks everything as orange,
then finds the center
point of that object,
and then does something with it.
So I had a little duck
following me around.
But you can probably find
a more viable application.
Also, I'd like to tell you to go
and check out core animation,
and it's kind of for two reasons.
One is if you're doing animation, well,
core animation is kind of
what you should look at.
And core animation at the
layer object can have core
image filters attached to it.
So animating filter effects is very easy.
You can wire up an LK animation
object directly to an input of
a filter and make things pulsant
glow and these kind of things.
And the second thing I would like
to point out is you can expand
the effects vocabulary of core
animation by building an image unit.
So if there is a transition effect
that core animation doesn't support,
but you would really like to see it,
well, write an image unit that does this,
and then let core animation drive
that image unit for you to do
that particular transition effect.
Okay, with that, I would like to point
you where to go next.
There is the late-night
graphics and media lab starting
at 6:00 tonight to 10:00.
Come by and ask as many
questions as you like.
And then tomorrow,
there is the Core Image lab.
Okay, with that, I would like to point
you where to go next.
There is the late-night
graphics and media lab starting
at 6:00 tonight to 10:00.
Come by and ask as many
questions as you like.
And then tomorrow,
there is the Core Image lab.